# Ruby on Rails Programming Notes

Creating a New Rails Application
To create a new Rails application, use the `rails new` command followed by the name of the application. For example:
    
```bash
rails new my_app
```
This will create a new Rails application in a directory called `my_app`.

## Creating a Model
To create a new model in Rails, use the `rails generate model` command followed by the name of the model and its attributes. For example, to create a `User` model with `name` and `email` attributes, use:

```bash
rails generate model User name:string email:string
```

This will generate a migration file for creating the `users` table in the database, as well as a `User` model file.

## Creating a Controller
To create a new controller in Rails, use the `rails generate controller` command followed by the name of the controller and its actions. For example, to create a `UsersController` with index and show actions, use:

```bash
rails generate controller Users index show
```

This will generate a `UsersController` file with the `index` and `show` actions.

## Routing

To define routes in Rails, use the `config/routes.rb` file. For example, to define a route for the `index` action of the `UsersController`, use:

```ruby
get 'users' => 'users#index'
```

This will map the URL `/users` to the `index` action of the `UsersController`.

## Views

To create views in Rails, create a file in the `app/views` directory with the name of the controller and action. For example, to create a view for the `index `action of the `UsersController`, create a file called `index.html`.erb in the `app/views/users` directory.

## Running the Application

To run a Rails application, use the `rails server` command. For example
    
```bash
rails server
```

This will start the Rails server and make the application available at `http://localhost:3000`.

## Generating Resources

Rails provides a convenient way to generate a full set of CRUD actions for a resource. To generate a resource, use the `rails generate resource` command followed by the name of the resource and its attributes. For example, to generate a `Post` resource with `title` and `body` attributes, use:

```ruby
rails generate resource Post title:string body:text
```

This will generate a migration file, a model file, a controller file, and views for the `index`, `show`, `new`, `edit`, and `delete` actions.




