# RCAV Flowchart

## Introduction

* Apps are a collection of URLs that we allow users to access.
* The route between the address and a Ruby method generates the response for the user's browser.

## Connecting the Dots

* To support a URL such as https://3000-your-gitpod-workspace.gitpod.io/home:
* User visits an address; in this case, /home.
* Add a route for it in `config/routes.rb.`
* Route: 
```Ruby
get("/home", { :controller => "pages", :action => "home" })
```
* get() method defines the route and has two arguments:
* A String containing the address to support.
* A Hash that tells Rails what to do when someone visits the address.
* :controller key specifies the name of a Ruby class.
* :action key specifies the name of a Ruby method to execute.
* Rails finds the match for the controller name specified in app/controllers folder.
* Controller files must end in _controller.rb and begin with the name specified in the route.
* Files contain Ruby classes that have to be CamelCased and always end in ...Controller < ApplicationController.
* Rails finds and executes the method specified as the action.
* Write as much or as little Ruby as necessary within the action to satisfy the request.
* Use the `render(`) method to specify the name of an HTML view template to format the output.
`render({ :template => "page_templates/home.html.erb"})`
* Takes one argument, a Hash.
* The Hash has a key, :template, with a String value.
* The string specifies the location of an Embedded Ruby HTML template to use to format the output.
* Create a folder within app/views that matches the name specified in the render() statement.
* Create a file within that folder that matches the name specified in the render() statement.
* If all dots are connected correctly, Rails will embed the variables in the `.html.erb `template, produce a final plain .html file, and send it back to the user's browser.

### Things to Keep in Mind

* Capitalization: use snake_case for all file, folder, method, variable, and symbol names. Use CamelCase only for class names.
* Spelling/pluralization matters: controller names are usually plural, but don't have to be.
* Location: controller files must be in app/controllers/.
* READ THE ERROR MESSAGE: It usually tells you exactly what is going wrong and where. It will at least give you a strong hint.